#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[all]{xy}
%\usepackage[basic,box,gate,oldgate,ic,optics,physics]{circ}
%\usepackage{pgfplots}
%\usepackage{etex}
%\usepackage{tikz}
%\usepackage{tikz-qtree}
\usepackage{datetime}
\usepackage{bussproofs}
\def\fCenter{\ \implies\ }
\usepackage{siunitx}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Terabyte Threat Analysis
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Acceptance Criteria Consideration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Team Lima
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

For Paul Reid on behalf of BT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
4th March, 2013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Acceptance Criteria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As per the document dated 12th February, 2013 regarding the specifications
 for the software project that Team Lima produced, this retrospective serves
 as a consideration as to whether the final result does or does not meet
 the needs initially identified and agreed upon.
 For each section, the name of the requirement, the previous description
 of the requirement, and a justification are provided.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Importer tool
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
The importer tool must be able to take .nfcapd files, convert them into CSV
 and place them into the HDFS.
 If a malformed file is created, it is not expected to do anything other
 than throw an error - no error correction attempt will be made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As specified, the importer tool does watch a directory and convert .nfcapd
 files to .csv files.
 The resultant file does appear in the HDFS.
 No consideration has been made for malformedness, so a failure of the nfdump
 utility will halt importing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
MapReduce
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
The Hadoop MapReduce jobs are not expected to produce 100% correct results
 at identifying threats.
 The system is unable to be tweaked to such degrees without all of BT’s
 data, something that must be honed during real operation.
 Provided the CSV is read in and statistics and metrics pertaining to possible
 threats are logged reasonably, this section is functional.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have created a series of MapReduce jobs to identify statistics and metrics
 as to threats.
 They are all rule-based, containing a variable that identifies when a given
 flow is considered to be worth investigation.
 Given the low amount of test data we had, we are aware that we did not
 produce 100% correct results, but this is functional given the above criteria
 nonetheless.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Cleaner
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
An investigation to ensure that the HBase cleaner only deletes required
 rows will be made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although we have no way to physically prove that this is the case, the fact
 we pass in the timestamp of the earliest acceptable row to HBase and use
 their methods to perform the rest leads us to believe that it is functional.
 Test cases have confirmed that in those instances, only the correct rows
 were removed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Monitor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Confirmation that the monitor passes through the correct inputs to the PGSQL
 database will be checked and tested.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the change in the purpose of the Monitor to mostly a simple passthrough,
 this was not truly necessary any more.
 However, the Statistics module does aggregate the data prior to output.
 This stage has been tested and is believed to correctly perform its calculation
s.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Web UI
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
The frontend will be checked for updating bugs, framework errors and syntax/layo
ut mistakes to ensure it complies with web standards correctly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Due to use of so many frameworks, a significant portion of the generated
 code is of such a form that another developer has confirmed that the structure
 is valid.
 The portions that have been created by the team have been passed through
 the W3C validator in a final test that confirms adherence to specification.
 Finally, scripting has been confirmed not to throw warnings or errors to
 the browser.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
