#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[all]{xy}
%\usepackage[basic,box,gate,oldgate,ic,optics,physics]{circ}
%\usepackage{pgfplots}
%\usepackage{etex}
%\usepackage{tikz}
%\usepackage{tikz-qtree}
\usepackage{datetime}
\usepackage{bussproofs}
\def\fCenter{\ \implies\ }
\usepackage{siunitx}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Terabyte Threat Analysis
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Progress Report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Team Lima
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

For Paul Reid on behalf of BT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
14th February, 2013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overall Progress
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As noted in the documents submitted on 12th February 2013, we have spent
 considerable time deliberating over the project and the best manner in
 which the brief should be converted to an implementation.
 The relatively open nature of the brief is most certainly appreciated,
 insofar that it provides flexibility as to the threats to be analysed,
 the technologies to make use of and the overall system structure.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, our work on this has determined the system to be realised is not
 trivial; a finished product cannot be created by simply coupling some applicati
on programming interface (API) to a front-end Graphical User Interface (GUI).
 Difficulties abound when attempting to formalise the notion of a 
\emph on
threat
\emph default
 and the scope of such threats we are expected to consider; should threats
 be considered as granularly as individual customers or as globally as the
 entire network? Both topics are requirements upon which the design of all
 aspects of the project depend, in particular the data analysis and the
 visualisation components.
 Furthermore, we have discovered that even after the concept of a threat
 is settled, it remains a complex matter to transform such a definition
 into a technical system using off-the-shelf technologies, not to mention
 one which scales to processing large datasets in near real-time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consequently, our design work has included a period of research, during
 which time we have experimented with the various technologies we intend
 to use in order to familiarise ourselves with their interfaces and behaviour.
 This has primarily revolved around those technologies which will be utilised
 (by stipulation of our client, or otherwise) to process large datasets
 at scale, such as Hadoop and HBase.
 This has necessarily involved the writing of some preliminary programming
 code to experiment with these systems, and efforts have been made to make
 such code applicable to the future implementation wherever possible.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition, some members of the group have spent considerable time locating
 and digesting research papers from academic journals and other sources
 to determine the specific threats we wish to capture and how to go about
 doing this using MapReduce jobs for data analysis at scale.
 This work - following many meetings and continual adjustment to the proposed
 system design - has finally resulted in the design of a system which we
 are happy with and feel addresses the project brief most directly.
 Furthermore, we are aware the project is of a particularly short duration
 and has relatively few developers for a task of this magnitude.
 We feel the system design we have converged upon permits further development
 in the future, should BT wish to do so.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The considerable time spent in the research and design phase means implementatio
n did not begin as early in the project as we had initially hoped.
 As of this writing, full implementations are now in progress.
 We do not feel at this stage that the time remaining to the final review
 and code completion will pose a significant issue due to the substantial
 design and project management work completed upfront.
 All members of the team are now familiar with all aspects of the project,
 the modular structure, and the manner in which aspects such as documentation
 and version control are to be undertaken.
 We feel the upfront planning will act to accelerate, rather than hinder,
 the implementation of the project and look forwarding to reporting positively
 in this regard in our final implementation report later this month.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The details that now follow concern the code and frameworks we have written
 and begun to use, respectively, within the project.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Module Progress
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Importer Tool
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main bash script for converting nfcapd files into Comma Separated Values
 (CSV) format is complete, although testing will be required to ensure it
 works in all circumstances.
 The inclusion of five variables at the top of the file to determine directory
 locations ensures it works under any configuration, since these variables
 can be changed for any environment on any system.
 Naturally, there may be issues that cannot be preempted, such as a change
 to the 
\emph on
nfdump
\emph default
 command, or to the 
\emph on
hdfs fs
\emph default
 command, but it is hoped that Cloudera would not be releasing major updates
 to their software components without bumping the version number of CDH,
 at which point it is possible to properly plan and test any such upgrades
 first, to account for the slight breakage which should be expected to occur.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
MapReduce Jobs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As of this point, no analytical MapReduce jobs have been created.
 However, proof of concept code has been used to ensure the group understands
 how MapReduce jobs are created, such as a distributed word-count example.
 This ensures the team is confident they understand how they can implement
 a given algorithm in a distributed manner, although the requirement of
 actually deciding on suitable algorithms to implement did cause significant
 delay in this phase.
 Since the Hadoop platform is relatively self-contained, reading from its
 own file system and writing to HBase, provided the CSV is placed in an
 expected place in the HDFS, and provided the HBase API remains the same,
 there is no other consideration that needs to be given to the portability
 or integration of this component.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
HBase
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The HBase schema has been decided and constructed, the group in agreement
 that it is suitable for the given task.
 No consideration needs to be given to implementation, other than a list
 of the commands required to build the same stores on the machine it is
 being implemented upon.
 The majority of the cleaner tool to maintain the data in this database
 is written already, using hard-coded variables to specify the age of the
 data to remove.
 These are able to be tweaked at will.
 Once the cron job is set up, this should also be an entirely self-contained
 step, since accessing HBase through ZooKeeper should require no added configura
tion.
 In addition, it is trivial to move the cleaner tool to another host provided
 a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is present, as it will be packaged as a single
 Java archive (JAR) file containing all dependencies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Monitor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The understanding as to what the Monitor is going to be tasked with has
 constantly changed through the project definition, as it is essentially
 the `glue’ between the backend and the frontend.
 Initially it was expected that it would have to run the algorithms, however
 these were pushed further into Hadoop.
 Then it was expected it would have to push results back into HBase, but
 then the PostgreSQL database was added for easier accessibility.
 Now it is clearer what the Monitor will do, however the fluidness of the
 definition means it has been very hard to create any code for it lest a
 specification change cause it to all become invalid.
 Provided the Monitor has access directly to HBase and PostgreSQL, integration
 is simple since there are no extra external sources to access.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Web Frontend
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The core of the Python web framework backend has been implemented, showing
 the connection between the database and the HTML5 front-end.
 The front-end web interface itself has a very basic but functional layout
 which will be polished towards the end of the project.
 As of this point, no actual mock or sample data has been processed or visualise
d by the front-end but progress has been made in defining exactly how the
 data will be shown.
 Provided there are no problems with formatting the data for use within
 the JavaScript graph libraries, creation of the graphs and statistics to
 be displayed is simple since it is just the case of passing data correctly
 to the JavaScript libraries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Milestone progress and future deliverables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As noted in the original 
\emph on
Project Plan
\emph default
 document, the milestone for delivery of this report is 14th February 2013,
 at 2pm.
 This report has been prepared and, by virtue of your reading it, delivered
 successfully.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Furthermore, by the second review meeting, on 15th February, we had initially
 committed to having a working demonstration of the core of our system,
 minus any GUI implementation.
 It would appear that we will have prototype code to demonstrate the design
 and implementation of individual modules, but at this time, we are unable
 to commit to a full data flow through all the back-end modules by the next
 review meeting.
 We will, of course, be able to speak extensively about the design of each
 module and the further time commitment required to implement them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The hard deadline for completing the overall translation of concepts and
 designs to a concrete implementation is the third and final review meeting,
 on 28th February 2013.
 Active steps are in the process of being taken to ensure this deadline
 is comfortably met.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
