#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[all]{xy}
%\usepackage[basic,box,gate,oldgate,ic,optics,physics]{circ}
%\usepackage{pgfplots}
%\usepackage{etex}
%\usepackage{tikz}
%\usepackage{tikz-qtree}
\usepackage{datetime}
\usepackage{bussproofs}
\def\fCenter{\ \implies\ }
\usepackage{siunitx}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Terabyte Threat Analysis
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Project Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Team Lima
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

For Paul Reid on behalf of BT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
12th February, 2013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Scope
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This document is intended to provide a high-level plan of the key milestones,
 assumptions and decisions made in a software project to implement a high-perfor
mance, scalable network threat analysis system.
 The detailed specifics of the project, including its design and implementation,
 are the subject of another document, the 
\emph on
Requirements Specification
\emph default
, which is published alongside this document.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Details
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This project is a 6 week collaboration between six Computer Science students
 at the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, hereinafter referred
 to as 
\emph on
Team Lima
\emph default
 or simply 
\emph on
the group
\emph default
, and an external client, Paul Reid, from BT.
 Due to the scale of the project and the nature of the design decisions
 involved, it has taken some time to capture the requirements, complete
 a design to a suitable standard and, subsequently, to prepare this document
 for publication.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Responsibilities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Client
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The client’s responsibilities include the provision of the original project
 brief, which defines the background to the project, and supplying any resources
 which will be necessary to make progress possible.
 In particular, the client is responsible for providing the group with sample
 data in an appropriate format to allow in-house testing and demonstration
 that the system works correctly.
 The client also oversees Team Lima and their progress by means of three
 client meetings, to be held at the Computer Laboratory periodically during
 the course of the project.
 It is intended for the group to operate, for the most part, on an autonomous
 basis between such meetings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Team Lima
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the requirements captured from the client’s brief, the initial meeting
 and any subsequent communications which may be exchanged, the group is
 responsible for the definition and management of the project, its design
 and arranging for its implementation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Phases
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
System Design (
\begin_inset Formula $\sim$
\end_inset

2 weeks)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The design of the system has been the subject of much deliberation, discussion
 and planning on the part of the group.
 As of the time of this writing, the overall design of the project, including
 the structure of the modules and their interactions, has been completed.
 The design requirements represent the overall structure of the system and
 its services to which the group will commit itself to developing with the
 client.
 As such, it is likely that any modifications to the design requirements
 at a later date without good reason will be seen unfavourably by all parties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Implementation (2 weeks)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A correct design and project plan will lead naturally into an implementation
 phase, in which the group writes the programming code to implement the
 behaviour of each module.
 This code will be written in accordance to the design document.
 Particular attention must be paid to the dataflow diagrams, interface design and database schemas 
 for each module.
 Correctly adhering to such interfaces will streamline the integration of
 each module at a later date.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It should be noted that the period of time predicted for the implementation
 is equal to that which elapsed during the design phase.
 While this may seem counter-intuitive, the complexity of the system has
 necessitated an extended design phase.
 During this period, the group located research papers to understand the
 algorithmic analysis of the data, and experimented with the various technologie
s to be used.
 This has contributed useful information to the design, which the group
 is confident is exhaustive in every regard.
 In addition, the modular structure divides the project cleanly into modules
 which, when stood alone, are relatively trivial to implement.
 Finally, it is not expected for the group to make further design decisions
 during the implementation, which is typically a contributing factor to
 slow progress in any ad-hoc development project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Testing (3--4 days)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A critical phase of the project will be its testing.
 This confirms that the individual modules conform to their respective requireme
nts and, in turn, the entire system implements the overall behaviour expected
 and conforms to its design requirements.
 This phase of the project may take place alongside the implementation such
 that particular modules are tested in parts as they are developed.
 If this is the case, an overall period of testing, during which all modules
 are integrated and expected to communicate successfully with each other,
 will still be required to prove system functionality, and to test those
 components which cannot be easily tested on a standalone basis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Integration and Handover (3--4 days)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The final stage in the project, this completes the system through the collation
 of documentation suitable for further development work or system integration
 on the client’s network.
 The codebase, along with such documentation, is passed to the client for
 future use.
 The client reports on their satisfaction with the work completed, and officiall
y signs off on the project if it is appropriate to do so.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Milestones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to track project progress and to be accountable to the client,
 it will be necessary to identify several key points throughout the project.
 These milestones are derived from reasonable estimates as to the time required
 to design, implement and test certain modules, including the ancillary
 work required for a project of this scale, such as documentation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
12th February, 2013: The group are expected to have completed their discussions
 around how best to implement the project, and be preparing to move forwards
 towards an implementation.
 Deliverables: Requirements Specification, Project Plan.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
14th February, 2013: Completion of the system scoping and design will move
 the group forwards into beginning to think about project implementation.
 A forthcoming client meeting requires the group to report on its implementation
 progress to the client.
 Deliverables: Implementation Progress Report, Integration Progress Report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
15th February, 2013, 2PM: Client Meeting.
 Deliverables: Prototype code suitable for private demonstration, demonstrating
 the functional components of the system thus far.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
28th February, 2013: Project completion.
 All systems implemented to a suitable standard and in accordance with the
 agreed design documentation.
 Deliverables: Group Report, Personal Reports.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
4th March, 2013: Completion of the codebase for submission to the Computer
 Laboratory.
 Deliverables: Final codebase, Full documentation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Resources
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A significant number of resources will be produced during the course of
 this project.
 It will be necessary to store those resources in locations suitable for
 access by the entire group.
 The appropriate location will be dictated by the nature of the resource
 and the number of changes which must be accommodated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Code will be subject to version control using the 
\emph on
git
\emph default
 version control system.
 This is a distributed version control system, so a copy is stored on the
 machines of every group member who initiates a checkout of the repository.
 This provides a primitive level of backup since every group member holds
 a complete copy of the data (including the entire history of the codebase).
 It is unlikely that the machines of multiple group members will be damaged,
 lost or rendered otherwise inaccessible during the course of the project.
 To allow for central sharing of repositories, a private repository on the
 
\emph on
GitHub
\emph default
 website will provide the authoritative central store for the code repository,
 another level of backup and additional functionality, such as a wiki, for
 central collaboration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Documentation will be stored in two locations.
 Draft documentation and internal meeting documentation, such as design
 documents and meeting minutes, will be stored in a central folder on 
\emph on
Google Drive
\emph default
.
 This facility provides convenient tools for multiple group members to collabora
te simultaneously on documents and spreadsheets.
 The team is relying on Google’s knowledge of distributed and clustered
 computing to protect the data, and working on the assumption that the company is of a sufficient
 size and level of technical knowhow to fend off attacks or attempts to
 harm or remove our data from its infrastructure.
 Nevertheless, the data stored on Google Drive will be purely incidental
 data, particularly for formal reports, which will eventually be typeset
 and shared with all group members through the git repository for safekeeping.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Computing resources will be required to perform development work and to
 execute the code on the system.
 The use of the Hadoop framework and other system services eliminates the
 use of the University’s Managed Cluster Service (MCS) for this purpose,
 as none of the group members are permitted to install or start system services
 on privileged ports on those machines.
 It is for this reason that group members must use their personal machines
 to run the Cloudera CDH4 virtual image, which contains the correct version
 of Hadoop upon which the project will be built.
 In addition, the size of the datasets (in excess of several gigabytes)
 will preclude the group’s use of the 100 MB of provided storage on the
 MCS.
 The group noted that on the code handover day, the Computer Laboratory
 intends to freeze and clone the workspace on the MCS.
 The group will endeavour to investigate closer to the handover time how
 best to transfer both code and documentation, which may consist of a single
 git clone into the group project space on the MCS, or arrange for some other
 method of handover.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition to this, the services of a central virtual private server (VPS)
 have been made available to the group.
 Although this will not be capable of performing heavy-lifting of any data
 - a task which must be confined to individual machines - it will act as
 a central repository for data which has been aggregated and anonymised.
 This permits group collaboration and enforces a single instance of a database
 among all members of the group, without exposing any of the raw data beyond the
 group's personal machines and the University's data network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Risk
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The group are required to keep confidential any sample data provided to
 them by the client, and preparations have been made to ensure it is stored
 securely, in an encrypted form where appropriate.
 The risk of such data being acquired has been minimised.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A considerable period of time has been spent researching and developing
 the designs for the project.
 This is largely due to the very open brief which the group was presented
 with.
 This was much appreciated, as it allowed the scope of the work to be defined
 by the group, but it has taken a considerable period of time to narrow
 that scope to a level appropriate to the project and the intentions of
 the client.
 The group is aware that good planning is never a bad idea, and that past
 experience means time spent in planning and design will often lead to fewer
 issues during implementation and the subsequent phases.
 However, the group is also cognisant of the delay which its design has
 had on the progression of the project.
 It should be noted that a milestone relating to implementation progress
 at the next client meeting is a matter of days from the date of this report,
 and that as such there is a risk the implementation may not have progressed
 as far as the client would have hoped by that time.
 However, the internal management of the project, completion of the designs,
 and good skills with many of the third-party systems leads the group to
 believe this is not a significant cause for concern.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
