#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[all]{xy}
%\usepackage[basic,box,gate,oldgate,ic,optics,physics]{circ}
%\usepackage{pgfplots}
%\usepackage{etex}
%\usepackage{tikz}
%\usepackage{tikz-qtree}
\usepackage{datetime}
\usepackage{bussproofs}
\def\fCenter{\ \implies\ }
\usepackage{siunitx}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Terabyte Threat Analysis
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Final group report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Team Lima
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

For Paul Reid on behalf of BT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
27th February, 2013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
This report concludes all formal paperwork provided by Team Lima over the
 course of the Terabyte Threat Analysis project.
 It aims to review the specification as per the start of the project, and
 reflect on exactly how much of it has come to fruition.
 It aims to describe deviations from this plan, and describe specifically
 how the final product has been produced.
 Documentation and the final codebase will follow at the point of the code
 freeze, serving specifically as the physical deliverables that complement
 this report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Specification Retrospective
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first consideration in the completion of a product is how well it conforms
 to the original specification.
 In the case of this project, the initial specification was incredibly fluid
 and loose prior to the investigation phase.
 This was an intentional design decision that would allow alterations up
 until the rigidly structured report submission.
 This extra phase did allow us to research new technologies and become sure
 that the products would fit together in the way planned, but the introduction
 of so many unfamiliar products did stunt the team's ability to be confident
 it was a somewhat-optimal layout.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the project specification’s footnote numbers are taken into account,
 it is clear that there are a large number of software projects upon which
 we intended to hang our own project.
 Libraries and helpers of various kinds that would massage the data into
 the correct formats for the correct phases of the workflow.
 However, now that the product has been created and both the Java 
\begin_inset Formula $\texttt{/lib}$
\end_inset

 folder and the HTML 
\begin_inset Formula $\texttt{/js}$
\end_inset

 folder can be examined, approximately thirty libraries ended up being reference
d.
 While it is the case that Hadoop is dependent on some number of these and
 we were not aware of that, it still represents a large amount of external
 dependencies.
 As with any libraries, we are aware that updates to the libraries may or
 may not be backwards compatible, and the more libraries are in the project,
 the more likely general development may need to version bump an existing
 library.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project went into great detail as to how each module that fitted together
 would work.
 Tweaks to modules shifted the exact position in the chain in which certain
 processing would go, leading to slight variations in the exact workflow.
 Although flowcharts were drawn up, the documentation does indicate changes
 to exact storage mechanisms and formats, such as the removal of `warning'
 states in order to simplify migration of data from one database to the
 other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Successes and Failures
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ultimately, the project did result in a deliverable that the team believes
 is a good milestone on the roadmap to BT being able to analyse their router
 log data with ease.
 Given the complexity and enormity of being the first to tackle this problem,
 there are undoubtedly some issues with the implementation.
 The initial images in all team members' heads were clearly very different.
 From the very first meeting, there were concepts that this would be for
 data analysis, for visualisation, for detection of notable activities and
 even for creating internal tickets to the relevant departments on each
 issue.
 The unified concept took its inspiration from all of these areas combined,
 the broad scope of the requirements specification a testament to this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Naturally, as with any new area to be explored, it was gradually apparent
 that certain actions were more complex than initially perceived, or even
 not possible with the given workflow.
 The format of Hadoop jobs, splitting the data up and processing it without
 the benefit of the lines above and below in certain edge cases for resolution
 led to some complex and slightly inefficient workarounds.
 This was necessary, however it is natural for pride in code to lead a writer
 to desire a more optimal and exact solution in these cases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since Hadoop is a highly distributed system, running across many different
 machines in order to execute jobs at its full capacity, it was initially
 suggested that some Amazon EC2 instances may help to test the project at
 scale on large datasets.
 Unfortunately, this was never able to be completed.
 The team was neither able to acquire the server time, nor the extra data
 that would have been needed to feed into the jobs.
 The non-Hadoop portion of the workflow was held remotely on a VPS for the
 purpose of using a common database instance, but ultimately the team had
 a single hour of data in a slightly different format than would be fed
 into the final product, in that it was the coalescing of results on multiple
 pieces of hardware.
 This was worked around to the best of the team’s abilities, but it is still
 impossible to guarantee or even be strongly confident that the code written
 will work immediately upon integration, as we were unable to ascertain
 generated filenames, folder structures and the like.
 We have done our best to leave configurations capable of adapting to the
 operating environment, but this still cannot possibly cover 100% of system
 configurations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The team had initially intended that a resolution to this would have been
 to demonstrate the product at the second client meeting, then gain feedback
 on exactly what portions would or would not work correctly when using BT's
 infrastructure.
 This, however, failed to materialise due to issues in actually having a
 working prototype at that time.
 Although the discussion during the meeting was nevertheless useful, it
 was evident that the fact the client would not see the project before the
 final result was being documented and polished would harm the team's ability
 to report positively on implementation possibility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The one method used by the team to test involved Cloudera's CDH4 virtual
 machines.
 These came preinstalled with all of the tools required to spin up a Hadoop
 instance on a single machine, paying the performance cost associated with
 virtualisation.
 A second drawback, however, was the extreme RAM demands the machine made.
 The virtual machine alone required over 3GB of RAM.
 When the host Operating System was added, it was clear that even on 4GB
 of RAM, this would be infeasible.
 This even led to one member of the team having to upgrade his RAM in order
 to have a usable build and test environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Salient points from development
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Version control was incredibly beneficial.
 It was often the case that we all swarmed to work on the code at the exact
 same time, and sometimes even on the same file for certain reasons.
 Without a version control system, we would have struggled incredibly to
 coordinate.
 Although it would initially appear that the modularity of the entire project
 would allow for each developer have a relatively unique set of files to
 create and test, the amount of message passing between phases caused much
 blurring of lines.
 Developers would have to add extra data in the sender so their receiver
 would have a usable result, or have to modify the receiving component to
 take extra data that had to be passed at a given point.
 In addition, the sections were each their own package, however certain
 packages had common concepts of enumerations and status codes to the point
 where they would have to be modified in lockstep to remain functional.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It appears to have been a common consensus that, while the team appreciates
 the fact BT left the scope of the project so open, it would have been useful
 to have some guidance as to the exact target of the final product.
 The fact that the project was presented with the caveat that "
\emph on
we[BT] don't exactly know what's possible
\emph default
" led to us having to make mistakes travelling down routes that would not
 provide any of the facility required.
 Factoring in some of the Apache incubator's poor documentation caused confusion
 and unease about certain directions that the product could take or how
 to interact with their APIs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although it was initially believed that more data would simply be a `nice
 addition,' and that we could either use the same data over and over as
 the test case or generate our own, it was clear that this was not true.
 For one thing, the file given was a coalescing of multiple routers, leading
 to duplicate rows and anomalies that meant we could not tune the parameters
 for our rule based functions on what was given.
 In addition, our own random data was harder to generate correctly than
 initially thought, and would also have not been possible to use to tune
 our variables since it were not real-world.
 This led to parameters having placeholder values in the final product,
 with stress placed on the fact that the value would require changing to
 be of any use in the real world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition, the team was increasingly aware that the documents regarding
 language choice advise using Java unless circumstances lead to another
 being truly necessary.
 Creating the initial importer as a cron-launched shell script was an immediate
 and correct design choice.
 The importer required the ability to call command line conversion and import
 programs, and doing so natively was critical.
 The selection of python for the web based interface was initially controversial
, although the final product does clearly show an interface with features
 far greater than Swing could ever provide, specifically given the client's
 description of the existing web-based statistics portal in Splunk.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Work distribution
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The initial plan of the work distribution was relatively unchanged.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As intended, Aaron took control of the main web interface, coding the python
 and HTML sections, plus setting up the hooks for earlier components to
 notify it of changes.
 Since he would be reading from the PostgreSQL database, he also designed
 its schema.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Jan and Ernest together set up the entire Hadoop infrastructure and its
 interactivity with HBase.
 As the writers to HBase, they defined the key and value layout for the
 database.
 This was a significant amount of work with new technologies, although Ernest
 did have some benefit in experience in the base concepts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alex was initially in control of the cleaner tool, and tasked with extra
 work where there were opportunities to contribute.
 Near the end of the project, the Monitor was a critical package to complete
 and he was able to assist in creating some of the classes for transferring
 the data between the databases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Matt and Simon were initially willing to take on the role of documentation
 and general `sysadmin' tasks for the project, as well as implementing the
 importer and Monitor.
 Matt wrote the base framework for the monitor and handled the connections
 to the two databases, while Simon initially wrote the shell script importer,
 then moved on to the Monitor where alterations were needed.
 Between the two of them, they produced a significant portion of all paperwork
 submitted to the client, coupled with reviewing the generated Javadoc and
 comments with the intention of producing a comprehensive package of paperwork
 the client could use for implementation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Team Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, Team Lima is very pleased to have been given the opportunity to
 do a project such as this one.
 In comparison to some of the possible projects, this had a much larger
 scope to make a significant benefit in the real world.
 We hope that what we've been able to produce helps BT understand what their
 data set is useful for, and we look forward to being able to present the
 final code and documentation at the end of the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The team agrees that this project was complex, and that there were certain
 roadblocks associated with the research-driven nature of the product, but
 we are confident that building on what we've been able to achieve should
 set the foundations for a more intelligent and wide-reaching analysis tool
 for the netflow data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the start, the group was always drawn to the mindset of using the
 most modern and fully featured tools available for development.
 From Apache incubator projects that are very new and innovative to git
 and Google Docs for collaborating in real time, the entire period has been
 a true example of how much the workload can be eased by identifying relevant
 open source or otherwise free tools and libraries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project was not without its downsides, and the team has spent many a
 late night trying to push code and paperwork forward to meet deadlines,
 but that is simply a natural part of projects and the inherent belief that
 certain components will take less time to implement than they do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most importantly, Team Lima would like to extend thanks to both the Computer
 Laboratory and BT for the experience, and hope that the result of these
 six weeks is a fitting culmination to a period of dedicated work by all
 six members.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
